# FitBit-Dashboard
URL to dashboard: https://fitbit-dashboard-18.onrender.com/

This is a dashboard created as a final project for the University of Virginia's Data Design II: Interactive Apps course (DS4003). The process of creating the dashboard began with figuring out what problem I wanted to solve, and what users I wanted to target with my dashboard. In my brainstorming, I wanted to focus on fitness, and I wanted fitness instructors/physical therapists and even public health organization employees to be able to find trends in various areas of health for either specific clients or the general public as a whole. It answers questions like: is there a correlation between step count and sleep effectivity? Do individuals with higher BMIs take more steps throughout the day? Are there trends throughout days of the week or months in calories burnt or minutes asleep? I felt as though both physical therapists and public health organization employees do not have the means to create visualizations for themselves amongst the other work that they have to do to find trends that will ultimately make their work more effective both in treating clients and in pushing for public policies. After identifying the problem and the users, I searched for a data set on kaggle.com. After discovering the dataset of FitBit user data, I cleaned the data to provide myself with only data that I needed and data that was usable to present visually on my dashboard. This required a lot of data exploration and digging, and deciding what to do with missing data. Once I began the process of figuring out how I wanted my data to be displayed, I iteratively went back into my data cleaning and refined my data set to exactly what I needed. This next step involved outlining spacially where each graph would go, how I would structure my dashboard organizationally, and brainstorming the types of graphs that would be most helpful to my users. I then began the crafting of the dashboard in VS Code, where as I coded, I would reference class material, google, and other documentation to help me see into fruition the ideas that I had in my brainstorming. I learned how to structurally organize my code and be transparent in my commmenting in a way that made it easy to continuously come back to and build upon in future work sessions. I learned just how many resources are out there to discover on the internet, and how to best integrate other people's ideas into my own. In the presenting of my dashboard to an audience of 30 students, I learned how to concisely and effectively communicate the reasoning for my dashboard, what it can do, and what would come with future iterations. Throughout this experience, I discovered that my strengths lie in ideation and scoping out the problem I want to solve and how I want to go about solving it. This helped greatly later on when I had to actually see it into fruition through code. 
